=head1 NAME

B<wmpinboard> - a B<Window Maker> dock app resembling a miniature pinboard

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  wmpinboard [options]

=head2 What wmpinboard is

B<wmpinboard> is a B<Window Maker> dock applet resembling a miniature 
pinboard.  It's intended to somewhat relieve heavily littered desktops 
by allowing you to place reminders on a graphical on-screen pinboard 
rather than producing a mess of real notes all around your keyboard 
(thus being environmentally A Good Thing, too B<;-)> ).  It supports 
arbitrary 6x10 X fonts and has XLocale support, enabling you to enter 
locale-dependent special characters if set up appropriately.  Besides 
text, you can add small monochrome sketches to your notes or simply 
encircle or underline words as a means of emphasis, and alarms can be 
set to explicitly remind you of things.  Above all, B<wmpinboard> is 
animated in redundant ways to make it look even more attractive, and 
themeability provides for a way of adapting its appearance to that of 
the rest of your desktop.

=head2 What wmpinboard ISN'T

Clearly, B<wmpinboard> doesn't allow you to keep an unlimited number of 
notes holding arbitrary amounts of information, and that's not what 
it's meant to do.  Just as real notes offer limited space, so do those 
simulated by B<wmpinboard>.  Besides, as a dock applet, it aims at 
being small and neat and yet useful in a way, and that's what it is, 
too, or considered to be by some people, anyway.  If you need room for 
more comprehensive reminders, use another program, either additionally 
or exclusively.  There's a variety of such out there, but their niche 
is different from that which B<wmpinboard> claims.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<wmpinboard>'s command-line options can be roughly divided into four 
groups: configuration directives, run-time options, command-line 
actions, and general options.  Generally, B<wmpinboard> supports
GNU-style long options (which may be abbreviated unambiguously) as well 
as short ones for parameters used more commonly.

=head2 Configuration directives

This type of command-line options changes some aspect of 
B<wmpinboard>'s configuration that is saved along with the data and 
thus set in a more permanent way.  Only one such parameter may be 
specified per call, and there mustn't be another instance running.

=over 2

=item B<C<--font=FONT>>

Makes B<wmpinboard> use the specified font; B<C<FONT>> can be one of 
the shortcuts listed when running the program with "B<C<--help>>" as a
parameter, or a complete X descriptor of a fixed size 6x10 font.  The
pinboard I<must be empty> in order for this option to be applicable.  
For more details, see L<"FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS">.

=item B<C<--theme=FILE>>

Configures B<wmpinboard> to load the specified theme when started 
interactively the next time.  B<C<FILE>> is the location of a 
B<wmpinboard> theme file (typically with a file name extension of 
F<.wmpbtheme>).  If it can't be loaded when run interactively, the 
program will revert to its default theme.  If B<C<FILE>> is an empty 
string or "default", the use of a custom theme will be deactivated.

Themes affect B<wmpinboard>'s appearance, in particular, its pinboard, 
edit mode and alarm panel pixmaps, the latter's digits, and possibly 
the location of the pinboard mode label area (via which notes are 
created).  For downloading themes, or if you're inclined to create one 
yourself and need instructions, check out the program's home page (see 
L<"AUTHOR"> or B<wmpinboard>'s "B<C<--help>>" output for the URL).  The 
themes kit containing instructions and samples on how to create theme 
files for B<wmpinboard> that can be downloaded there is also included 
with the source package of the program.

=item B<C<--alarm-cmd=CMD>>

Configures B<C<CMD>> as the command to be executed on alarms.  E.g., 
you could use "C<xkbbell>" to cause the program to beep on such 
occassions, or make it run some sound-playing program.  To reset the 
alarm command to none, make B<C<CMD>> a zero-length string.

=back

=head2 Run-time options

=over 2

=item B<C<-d DISPLAY>> or B<C<--display=DISPLAY>>

Uses the specified X display rather than the default one.

=item B<C<-c>> or B<C<--click-to-focus>>

This turns on some emulation of a click-based keyboard focus mode. See
L<"FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS">.

=item B<C<-t TIME>> or B<C<--timeout=TIME>>

Sets the edit mode timeout (i.e., the number of seconds of idleness 
after which edit mode is terminated automatically) to B<C<TIME>> 
seconds.  The compile-time default is 60s, but this may have been 
changed for your particular build; run with B<C<-v>> if in doubt to 
check that.  Specifying a value of 0 (zero) will disable the timeout.

=item B<C<-n>> or B<C<--normal-state>>

Forces B<wmpinboard> to run in so-called NormalState, which is 
preferred by B<AfterStep>'s B<Wharf>.

=item B<C<-w>> or B<C<--withdrawn-state>>

Forces the program to run in so-called WithdrawnState, as desired by 
the B<Window Maker> dock.  This option and the previous one are mutually 
exclusive.  Note also that B<wmpinboard> tries to auto-detect whether 
B<Window Maker> is running and sets itself up accordingly.  Using B<C<-n>>
or B<C<-w>> should only be necessary in case those heuristics fail on 
your system for some reason or other.

=item B<C<--light>>

Use this switch to suppress animations.

=back

=head2 Command-line actions

Even though B<wmpinboard> is by design an interactive application, 
there may be occasions when it comes in handy to be able to 
access/manipulate notes from the command line.  That's why the program 
offers a set of command-line options allowing for basic operations of 
that kind.  Still, it should be kept in mind that B<wmpinboard> is 
primarily meant to be used interactively.

All of the options below will, if an interactive instance of 
B<wmpinboard> is running in the background, cause that to save its data 
(and quit I<edit mode>, if necessary), and if any changes are made by 
the respective option, the interactive instance will then be signalled 
to re-read the data file.  Even though the implemented methods of
inter-process communication should generally be sufficiently safe 
with respect to avoiding data file corruption, it's in theory possible 
to undermine the concept and cause damage that way--yet this won't 
happen unless you deliberately take pains to achieve the goal.  
Generally, everything should work fine as long as you don't try running 
multiple non-interactive instances of B<wmpinboard> simultaneously.

Only one of the below actions can be specified per call to B<wmpinboard>.

=over 2

=item B<C<--dump>>

This dumps the contents of all notes, replacing line breaks by spaces 
(unless preceded by a hyphen) and shortening sequences of blanks.  The 
list of dumped strings will be sorted by color groups.  If you use 
special characters in your notes, make sure your terminal's running 
with the same character set as B<wmpinboard>, or what you'll see might 
have a garbage-like quality.

Each line of output represents one note and is prefixed by the internal
number I<currently> identifying the respective note and, if an alarm is
configured for the respective note, time and date (or "daily").

=item B<C<--dump-raw>>

Unlike the "cooked" dump described above, this just dumps the raw 
contents of all notes without applying any kind of formatting.  May 
come in handy if your notes happen to contain E-mail addresses or other 
things for which lines 10 characters wide are too narrow.

=item B<C<--del=NUMBER>>

This option will remove the note identified by B<C<NUMBER>> from the 
pinboard.  B<C<NUMBER>> is a number determined by the output of either 
dump option, which should be consulted right before using this one, 
since note numbers may change when notes are moved around on the board 
or others are removed.

=item B<C<--add=STRING>>

When run with this option, B<wmpinboard> will add a new note (provided 
the maximal number of notes has not yet been reached) at a random 
position on the board, with contents B<C<STRING>>, word-wrapping the 
text at the end of the note's lines where necessary (after white space 
and hyphens).  If due to this wrapping, the entire string cannot be 
stored on the note, the remainder will be discarded silently.

In order to create a note with a certain color, the string can be
prefixed by a color code specifying the group of colors which a random 
color is to be selected from (code letters are recognized
case-insensitively):

  %G - green
  %Y - yellow/white
  %R - reddish
  %B - blue

Alternatively or additionally, you may specify a position code as "%1" 
through "%9", defining an approximate position on the board where the 
note is to be placed.  Each of the nine figures corresponds to a ninth 
of the board with its index assigned in accordance with the layout of 
your keypad (i.e., "%1" meaning lower left, "%9" upper right corner, 
and so forth).

Thus,

  wmpinboard --add '%g%5test'

will place a green note saying "test" at the center of the board.

(Note: The "%" character can be escaped by a second one if you want to
add an un-prefixed string starting with a percent character.)

=item B<C<--add-raw=STRING>>

Via this option, a new note can be added from the command line 
(provided that this won't exceed the maximum number of notes).  
B<C<STRING>> specifies the I<raw> contents of the note, as printed by 
B<C<--dump-raw>>.  The same set of color group and position codes as 
for the previous option applies.

=back

=head2 General options

=over 2

=item B<C<-h>> or B<C<--help>>

This prints a help screen listing command line options together with 
brief descriptions.

=item B<C<-i>> or B<C<--info>>

Prints information about the current user configuration (font, theme, 
alarm command) and some useless statistics.

=item B<C<-v>> or B<C<--version>>

This prints some more detailed version information, in particular, 
which compile-time settings this binary was built with.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<wmpinboard> operates in basically two different modes, namely, the 
I<pinboard view> and I<edit mode>.  Furthermore, a I<panel> of buttons 
granting access to extended options can be popped up in I<edit mode>,
which in turn allows you to display the I<alarm panel> to configure
alarm settings for the current note.

=head2 Pinboard view

This is B<wmpinboard>'s normal mode of operation.  A potentially
chaotic arrangement of tiny squares on a beige-colored oblong (default 
theme) is meant to resemble notes pinned to a cork board.  Possible 
actions include:

=over 2

=item *

I<Add> a note, by left-clicking on the board's "TO DO" label.  This 
creates a new, blank, randomly-colored note at a random position on the 
board and puts B<wmpinboard> in I<edit mode> (see below).  If you 
prefer to place a new note at a certain position before being prompted 
to enter its contents, this can be done by moving the mouse cursor 
after having clicked on the label.  This will realize the note and 
allow you to drag it to a position of your choice.  B<wmpinboard> will 
switch to I<edit mode> as soon as you release the mouse button.

=item *

I<Edit>/I<view> a note, by left-clicking on a note.  This switches
to I<edit mode> (described below).

=item *

I<Move> a note, by dragging it using the right mouse button.
This also raises the note in question on top of all others.
Depending on its horizontal position, the note will be tilted
automatically.  As a side-effect, a single brief right-click
can be used to raise a note on top of overlapping ones without
moving it.

By dragging a note with the left mouse button, you can move it without 
changing its level with respect to other notes, i.e., without raising 
it on top of all others.

=back

=head2 Edit mode

This mode serves two purposes: on the one hand, it presents you with a 
"full-size" view of a note's contents, on the other, you can use the 
occasion to edit it.  Due to its limited size, a note can hold up to 10 
characters on 6 lines (minus one on the last, i.e., 59 characters 
altogether), plus a monochrome sketch of some kind.  Possibly actions:

=over 2

=item *

I<Enter> text.  B<wmpinboard> supports user-selectable fonts and dead 
keys, so you should be able to enter any characters that are usually 
accessible via your keyboard and have them displayed correctly.  
Furthermore, the cursor can be moved around using the arrow keys (or 
EMACS-style via [Ctrl]-[N]/[P]/[F]/[B], if you are so inclined).  
Alternatively, it can be placed explicitly by left-clicking where you 
want it to be.  Other special keys that are supported include:

=over 2

=item [PgUp]/[PgDn]

Places the cursor on character 1/59, respectively.

=item [Home]/[End]

Places the cursor at the textual start or end of the current line.

=item [Del]

Deletes the character currently under the text cursor and shifts the 
remaining text on the current line to the left; if the current line is 
blank, removes it and shifts all lines below up by one line.

=item [Backspace]

See [Del], but affects the character on the left of the cursor.

=item [Ins]

Toggles inserting/overwriting of existing text; the current mode is 
indicated by a cursor change (block cursor means insert mode).

=item [Enter]

In insert mode, wraps the current line at the cursor's position; in 
overwrite mode (underscore cursor), merely moves the cursor to the 
start of the next line.

=item [Ctrl]-[Y], -[Z]

Removes an entire (intermediate) line, shifting those below up by one, 
and places the cursor at the start of the current line.

=item [Esc]

Quits I<edit mode> and returns to the I<pinboard view>.

=item [Shift]-[Left]/[Right]

Cycles through all notes currently on the pinboard.

=item [Shift]-[Up]/[Down]

Cycles through all notes that are I<roughly> the same color as the 
current one.  For this purpose, colors have internally been divided 
into four groups: green, white/yellow, reddish, blue.

=item ([Shift]-)[Tab]

Cycles (backwards) through available note colors.

=back

=item *

I<Cut'n'paste> text.  Despite the limitations implied, B<wmpinboard> 
has support for cutting & pasting to and from the X clipboard:

=over 2

=item *

In order to copy text to the clipboard, select the desired segment via 
either the left or the right mouse button: the left one will copy the 
text post-formatted as done by the command line switch B<C<--dump>> 
(see L<"OPTIONS">); the right button will copy the raw selection.  
Similarly, a left double click will select the word (i.e., all 
adjoining non-blank characters) at the respective position, a right one 
will do the same but neglect line breaks as delimiters.  Additionally, 
you can copy a note's entire raw contents by pressing S<[Ctrl]-[R]>; 
S<[Ctrl]-[C]> will do the same with applied post-formatting.

=item *

To paste the clipboard's contents, press the middle button wherever the 
insertion is supposed to happen.  This will insert the clipboard's 
current contents, trying to word-wrap the text (at white space and 
after hyphens).  If in insert mode, following text will be shifted 
towards the end of the note, trying to word-wrap that as well.

If you wish to paste something without word-wrapping (e.g., an URL 
containing a hyphen), paste it via S<[Ctrl]-[I]> (think [i]nsert).  This 
will paste the clipboard's raw contents at the current location of the 
cursor, shifting subsequent text if in insert mode (not trying to
word-wrap that either).

=back

Obvious limitations you should be aware of include:

=over 2

=item *

As is usually the case (about B<wmpinboard>, anyway), size matters.  
As you know, a note can hold only up to 59 characters, so trying to 
paste longer strings will result in those being truncated.

=item *

If the text to be pasted is formatted in some way or other, this won't 
be the case any more after it has been pasted: B<wmpinboard> replaces 
new line characters by blanks and, when pasting using the mouse, tries
to word-wrap text.

=item *

The information stored in the cut buffer needn't necessarily be 
compatible with B<wmpinboard> in that it may be encoded with another 
character set.

=back

=item *

I<Leave> I<edit mode>.  This is achieved by left-clicking on the
triangle in the lower right-hand side corner.  If the note is
completely empty, it will be removed from the board.  In any
case, this returns to the I<pinboard view>.

=item *

I<Pop up> a I<panel> with some further options to choose from.  This
is done by right-clicking on the aforementioned triangle.  To
learn what the I<panel> is there for, see the corresponding section
below.

=item *

I<Draw> a sketch.  This mode can be activated via the I<panel>, and
deactivated by either right-clicking somewhere on the note
or opening the I<panel> again.  While in drawing mode, the mouse
pointer is pencil-shaped, and drawing can be done by keeping
the left mouse button pressed and dragging the mouse, just as
you'd expect.  Sketch and text may overlap each other, but keyboard 
input is ignored while in drawing mode.

=item *

I<Erase> a sketch.  Just like DRAWing mode, this mode is entered
via the I<panel>, and can be quit just like the former.  In erase
mode, the text is hidden, so you needn't guess whether a pixel
belongs to an entered character or a drawn sketch.  Note that
the erase cursor's point is slightly larger than the one used
when drawing.

=back

Note: B<wmpinboard> remembers where you left the text cursor after 
you last edited a note and restores this position when you edit it the 
next time.

=head2 Edit mode panel

This I<panel> is intended to provide easy access to some options 
affecting I<edit mode> or the current note in general.  The I<panel> 
looks like this (letters denoting the buttons for reference below):

    +---+---+---+---+
    | a | c | e | g |
    +---+---+---+---+
    | b | d | f | h |
    +---+---+---+---+

The buttons bear tiny icons which are meant to suggest what they do, 
which isn't all that easy on a 12x12 pixels area. B<C<:^)>>

Here's a description of what each button does:

=over 4

=item (a)

Left-clicking on this button opens and closes the I<alarm panel> (see 
below), which allows you to configure alarm settings for the note being 
edited.  When the I<alarm panel> is visible, the alarm is activated.  
To turn it off, press the button again and make the panel disappear.

=item (b)

This button allows one to cycle through all colors available for notes 
(20 of them).  Clicking on it won't close the I<panel>, so this can be 
done repeatedly.  Using the left mouse button traverses the colors in 
ascending, using the right button in descending order.  I<Note:> colors 
can also be changed via a keyboard shortcut in I<edit mode> (see that 
section).

=item (c)

This button closes the I<panel> and returns to I<edit mode>, with
the sketch-I<draw>ing feature enabled (see above).

=item (d)

Closes the I<panel> and returns to I<edit mode>, with the
sketch-I<eras>ing feature enabled (see above).  Don't panic if entered 
text vanishes all of a sudden when you do this: this is because 
B<wmpinboard> intentionally hides it to eradicate the need for you to 
make wild guesses as to what's entered text and which pixels belong to 
a sketch.

=item (e)

This button removes all entered text on the current note and places the 
text cursor on the very first character.  Besides, it closes the 
I<panel>, thus returning to I<edit mode>.

=item (f)

Pressing this button completely removes a drawn sketch on the current 
note and returns to I<edit mode>.

=item (g)

This option removes the *entire* note from the board and returns to 
I<pinboard view>.

=item (h)

This button merely closes the I<panel> (and thus puts you back in 
I<edit mode>).  The same can be achieved by simply right-clicking in 
this view.

=back

=head2 Alarm panel

This panel can be accessed from the I<edit mode panel> described above.
If the panel is visible while the I<edit mode panel> is on, the alarm is
set, otherwise, it's disabled.

The I<alarm panel> consists of six distinct clickable areas.  The 
digits to the left and right of the colon are the hour and minute which 
an alarm is to be set for.  Below them, a date can be specified in 
month, day order.  On the right, there are two toggle buttons (which 
can be either green (on) or red (off) and are mutually exclusive).  The 
top one represents a daily alarm whereas the bottom one indicates/sets 
a date-specific one.

The hour, minute, month, and day of month fields can each be 
incremented or decremented by left- or right-clicking on them, 
respectively.  Clicking on one of the toggle buttons configures the 
alarm as the respective type.

As the above description implies, there are two distinct kinds of 
alarms: daily and date-specific ones.

Alarms are generally executed only when in I<pinboard view> and not 
moving any notes about.  If you're keeping the program busy at the time 
an alarm would have to occur, it will be delayed until you're finished 
(i.e., let the program return to idle I<pinboard view>).  The same holds
if an alarm occurs while another one is running.

If all prerequisites are given and an alarm becomes due, the 
corresponding note is displayed in edit view, and the display starts to 
flash on and off, along with the alarm command being executed (see 
L<"OPTIONS">).  To stop the blinking, click on the note.  From then on, 
the note will be in I<edit mode>.

For daily alarms, the entered date is ignored, and as the name suggests,
they're run every day at the specified time.  To deactivate such an 
alarm, you have to open the I<edit mode panel> and click button (a) to 
make the I<alarm panel> disappear, which turns the alarm off.

In contrast, date-specific alarms are executed only once, at the 
specified day and time.  Since a year cannot be specified (explicitly), 
the alarm will be run on this date's next occurrence within a year from 
when the alarm was set.  After that, the alarm will automatically be 
disabled.  If a date-specific alarm becomes due while B<wmpinboard> 
isn't running, it will be displayed as soon as the program is started 
the next time--which does B<not> go for daily alarms.

The default mode for alarms is date-specific, and time and date are 
initialized with the next full hour when the alarm panel is opened the 
first time for a given note.

Internally, alarm times are stored in universal format, i.e., if you 
change the time zone after having set an alarm, the time will stay 
universally the same but will differ relative to the new time zone from 
what absolute time you originally set.  This behavior is intended.

Finally, it should be mentioned that there are a few limitations with 
respect to command line actions (such as B<C<--add>>, B<C<--del>>,
B<C<-i>>, etc.).  See L<"RESTRICTIONS">.

=head1 FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

=over 2

=item *

I<Q:> Is a "pinboard" this small really of any use?

I<A:> Of course the limited size imposes certain restrictions, but if 
you think about it, you'll agree that a real life pinboard reminds you 
of things by the mere existence of notes being pinned to it.  In order 
to read what they say, you have to step close and, possibly, detach the 
note.

Quite similarly, B<wmpinboard> reminds you of things by facing you with 
colored representations of notes on your screen.  To find out what it 
was you intended them to remind you of, all you have to do is click on 
a note, which will then be displayed full size.  Furthermore, the alarm 
feature introduced in a later version allows for even more explicit 
reminders and thus renders B<wmpinboard> even more powerful in a way 
than any real-life cork board. B<C<:-)>>

By choosing from a variety of possible colors, you can assign 
particular colors to certain kinds of reminders, which may further 
enhance B<wmpinboard>'s usability.  Moreover, you can place certain notes 
on certain areas of the board to emphasize their category, urgency, 
etc.  It's up to you what to make of it.

Finally, by adding drawing capabilities, I've definitely overcome the 
contents quantity barrier imposed by the maximum number of 59 
characters, for as everyone knows, a picture is worth more than a 
thousand words. *grin*

=item *

I<Q:> I don't live in an English-speaking country, so what about extended
characters (umlauts, accents, cyrillic alphabet)?

I<A:> B<wmpinboard> allows you to use an arbitrary 8bit X font, provided 
that its characters are of a fixed size of 6x10 (or, deprecated but 
possible, anything E<lt>= 7x10) pixels.  The default font is "6x10" (more 
precisely, it's called
"-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--10-100-75-75-c-*-ISO8859-1"), an
ISO8859-1 (Latin1) font which should be part of every XFree 
installation.

In order to make B<wmpinboard> use another font, run it as

  $ wmpinboard --font=FONT

where B<FONT> is either a shortcut for a compiled-in font name (see 
L<"OPTIONS"> for a list of those) or a valid, complete X font 
descriptor.  This is a configuration directive, meaning that no other 
instance of B<wmpinboard> may be running at the time.  Note that this 
I<only works if there are no more notes on the board>.  It's 
intentionally been made impossible to change the font while there are 
notes saved in B<wmpinboard>'s data file, since this might result in 
garbage being displayed.  Of course even a font specified via a 
shortcut has to exist on your system in order to be usable.

If a configured custom font cannot be loaded or has invalid dimensions, 
B<wmpinboard> will try to revert.  Note that this won't affect the font 
name saved along with the data, though.

=item *

I<Q:> How can I disable those vexing, superfluous animations?

I<A:>

  $ wmpinboard --light

=item *

I<Q:> Why aren't those animations smooth all of the time?  Sometimes it 
looks like they're being skipped entirely.

I<A:> This presumably is a multitasking issue: depending on the current 
system load and B<wmpinboard>'s/the X server's recent CPU usage 
history, it may take a moment until the scheduling has been adapted to 
the suddenly increased CPU load implied by displaying the animation, 
and short as it is, it may already be finished until this has happened, 
i.e., it's the X server lagging behind in updating the program's 
display if B<wmpinboard>'s been idle for some time prior to that.  It 
may sound paradoxical, but the effect is the more likely to show the 
lower the system's load is.  I don't see a way to avoid this
effect--either this, or you turn off animations altogether.

=item *

I<Q:> When I leave B<wmpinboard> idle in edit mode for some time, edit 
mode is terminated automatically.  Is that intended?

I<A:> Yes.  After 60 idle seconds (that's the default; see 
L<"OPTIONS">) in edit mode (no mouse click and no keyboard input), edit 
mode is terminated automatically.  If the note being edited happens to 
be blank, it will be discarded (or removed if an existing note is being 
edited).

This timeout can, however, be adjusted according to your preferences or
turned off using the B<C<-t>> parameter.  See L<"OPTIONS"> for this.

=item *

I<Q:> When does B<wmpinboard> save its data?

I<A:> Notes data is saved on each of these occasions:

=over 2

=item *

whenever edit mode is terminated

=item *

when you switch notes in edit mode (via [Shift]-[S<arrow key>])

=item *

when a note has been moved on the board

=item *

when an interactive instance is running and you run B<wmpinboard> from 
the command line, making it dump, add, or delete notes

=item *

when killed via SIGINT or SIGTERM and edit mode is active

=back

Notes are saved to a file called F<.wmpinboarddata> in your home 
directory (see L<"FILES">).

=item *

I<Q:> I've tried my best and littered the entire pinboard with quite a 
lot of notes.  Now I can't seem to be able to add another one.

I<A:> There's a compile-time limit of 20 notes.  I think more notes on 
this tiny a board really don't make any sense.

=item *

I<Q:> I've explicitly configured my window manager for click-based 
rather than mouse-following focus, but B<wmpinboard>'s focus follows 
the mouse regardless.  Can I change this?

I<A:> By default, B<wmpinboard> actively claims the keyboard input 
focus (if it's in note edit mode) whenever the pointer is moved over the 
application's area.  Since B<wmpinboard> is a dock applet, i.e., a 
withdrawn rather than a "real" X window, it can't be assigned a focus 
in the same way as to the latter ones.  However, running B<wmpinboard> 
with the parameter B<C<-c>> will make it emulate some sort of
click-based focusing.  This means, it actively claims the keyboard 
focus only on these occasions:

=over 2

=item *

when a new note is created (I<not> when you click on an existing
note--you'll have to explicitly click on the editing area to make it 
claim focus; this way, you can just view a note without any change to 
keyboard focus)

=item *

when you click somewhere on the text area in edit mode

=back

Once keyboard-focused, B<wmpinboard> will keep it until another window 
is explicitly focused (usually by clicking on its title bar or 
border).  To focus B<wmpinboard> again when it's lost focus, you'll 
have to click on its text area in edit mode.  This click will only 
focus the application and not have the usual cursor-positioning effect.

This feature is to be considered experimental since I'm not sure of how 
much use it really is.  A mouse-following focus is the recommended mode 
of operation.

=item *

I<Q:> I've noticed that after a while, some sort of darker stains 
appear on my notes.  Is that a bug in some drawing routine?

I<A:> No, this is not a bug.  These "stains" are meant to resemble 
creases, caused by frequent handling of a particular note (wear & tear, 
you see?).  In fact, they're added with a certain probability whenever 
you view a note by clicking on it (note that leafing through notes via 
[Shift]-[S<arrow keys>] is I<not> affected), when you clear its textual 
or drawn contents via the I<edit mode panel> (very outwearing, that 
S<B<;-)> )>, and when a note is moved.  This feature can be disabled at 
compile time by running F<configure> with C<--disable-creases> as a
parameter.

To prevent the question, no, worn-out notes cannot be ironed to get rid 
of the creases.  Sorry. B<C<:-p>>

=item *

I<Q:> Is B<wmpinboard> compatible with B<AfterStep>'s B<Wharf>?

I<A:> B<wmpinboard> tries to autodetect whether B<Window Maker> is 
running and sets itself up accordingly.  If this doesn't work for you 
for some reason, you can explicitly make it run in either Withdrawn- or 
NormalState using the B<C<-w>> or B<C<-n>> flag, respectively.  See 
L<"OPTIONS">.

Swallowing evidently works with B<AfterStep> 1.6.10; I don't know about 
earlier versions.  A B<Wharf> config line you might try is this:

  *Wharf wmpinboard nil MaxSwallow "wmpinboard" wmpinboard &

Besides, B<wmpinboard> has been reported to work with B<Blackbox>.

=item *

I<Q:> I have X running at a color depth of 8 bits, i.e., in palette 
mode, and B<wmpinboard> obviously requires too many colors and thus 
looks real messy (or doesn't run at all, complaining about "not enough 
free color cells").  What can I do about this?

I<A:> As of version 0.99.1, the recommended solution is to upgrade 
whatever component of your system restricts you to a palette mode.

=item *

I<Q:> Can I run multiple instances of B<wmpinboard> as the same user, 
simultaneously?

I<A:> No, this is certainly not a good idea.  The run-time behavior may 
be unpredictable, and your data file can get corrupted.  Therefore, any 
B<wmpinboard> process that's to be run interactively first checks 
whether another interactive instance is running, and if so, refuses to 
run.

=item *

I<Q:> I've just upgraded from a pre-0.7 version of B<wmpinboard> and 
noticed that its data file format has changed completely since.  Is 
there a way to upgrade and yet keep my existing notes?

I<A:> There's a B<Perl> script doing the conversion included with the 
distribution (the source one, anyway).  If your package didn't include 
that, feel free to mail to the author (see L<"AUTHOR"> at the end of 
this documentation).

=item *

I<Q:> I find a mere 59 characters per note to be a real limitation.  
How about making B<wmpinboard> pop up an external window with more room 
for that?  Or how about assigning that job to an external editor?

I<A:> There's a variety of comprehensive programs for keeping notes out 
there, offering this functionality but being rather heavy-weight since 
they are linked against one GUI library or another (B<CoolNotes> or 
B<KNotes> come to mind).  On the other hand, I couldn't find a
B<WM>-conforming reminder I could omnipresently stick to my desktop 
anywhere, so I wrote B<wmpinboard>.  I wanted it to be small, neat, 
easy to use, and yet useful in a way.

I hope that's about what the program is currently like.  And I'd prefer 
to keep it like that rather than inflate it by linking against a GUI 
library--eventually, the note editing code would outweigh the rest of 
the application by a factor, and people would probably still create 
notes mostly shorter than 60 characters.  If you restrict your memos to 
keywords and abbreviations, that's quite a lot.

I want B<wmpinboard> to remain an applet in that it doesn't open up 
external windows and use (if just temporarily) additional desktop 
space.  I explicitly wrote it to have something omnipresent at a fixed 
position on my desktop.  I find it preferable to have the notes pop up 
in place rather than somewhere else on the screen.

Personally, I use other programs for larger notes too; B<wmpinboard>
has been designed for things smaller in size and greater in urgency,
it's in no way meant to be a comprehensive knowledge base application
of any kind.

Summing up, I think a dock applet should be small both regarding its
on-screen representation and the resources it uses.  That's why I 
don't intend to add any pop-up dialogs or similar things to 
B<wmpinboard>.

=item *

I<Q:> I've tried the program, yet I can't help finding it utterly 
useless.  What shall I do?

I<A:> The solution is simple.  Just don't use it.

=item *

I<Q:> Will your answer to this question be "no"?

I<A:> Nope.

=back

=head1 HINTS

=over 2

=item *

A good way of making the best of the organizational features offered by 
B<wmpinboard> is to use certain colors and locations on the pinboard to 
indicate urgency and contents of a note.  For example, you might use 
each of the color groups for a certain kind of reminder, because that 
enables you to leaf through all notes with related contents via
[Shift]-[S<arrow keys>] in edit mode.  Besides, you might assign each 
corner of the board a specific urgency, altogether allowing you to 
derive a note's type from its color and its urgency from its location 
on the board.  Thanks again to the ability to leaf through all notes 
belonging to the same group of colors, notes with similar contents will 
still be clustered in a way.

=back

=head1 UNDOCUMENTED FEATURES

This piece of documentation doesn't cover any undocumented features.

=head1 FILES

=over 2

=item F<~/.wmpinboarddata>

the user's B<wmpinboard> data file

=item F<~/.wmpinboarddata.new>

temporary file created momentarily when saving data

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 2

=item $HOME

the user's home directory

=back

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

=over 2

=item *

B<wmpinboard> relies on a dock app tile size of at least 64x64 pixels.  
In fact, using smaller tiles renders the applet rather useless, as, 
e.g., opening the edit mode panel becomes impossible.

=item *

Unpredictable effects may be the results if a command line action is
taken while an alarm is running and others are due simultaneously.
If just a single alarm is active and no others are due, that alarm will
be cancelled when the two instances of B<wmpinboard> synchronize.
If more instances are due during the process, a race conditions arises
that can't be solved satisfactorily due to the program's internal
structure and organization.  Still, in theory, nothing critical will
happen, and the most you'll lose will be an alarm or two.

=item *

B<wmpinboard> data files are not designed to be portable across 
architectures.  Due to differences in data type representations that 
are likely otherwise, a datafile can only be reliably used by program 
binaries running on machines of the same architecture.

=item *

Certainly of no interest to anyone, but mentioned for the sake of 
completeness: B<wmpinboard>'s alarm features will start to fail past 
04:14:07 on Jan 19, 2037, which is due to the legacy Un*x time format.

=back

=head1 BUGS

If you stumble on any bugs, feel free to mail the author.  The same 
goes if you encounter any problems running/using the program.  Be sure 
to include any information you consider relevant, i.e., at a minimum, 
the version of B<wmpinboard> you're using as well as your OS and X 
versions.

Also, further suggestions are always welcome.  Please check the F<TODO> 
file that's part of the distribution to see if what you're about to 
suggest isn't already on my "to do" list, or has been suggested earlier 
and was rejected for one reason or other.

=head1 SEE ALSO

wmaker(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

B<wmpinboard> is copyrighted (c) 1998-2000 by Marco GE<ouml>tze, 
E<lt>gomar@mindless.comE<gt>.  It is distributed under the terms of the 
GNU General Public License, revision 2 or any later revision thereof.  
Use at your own risk.

New releases of and themes for B<wmpinboard> can be found at
E<lt>http://www.tu-ilmenau.de/~gomar/stuff/wmpinboard/E<gt>, or 
that was true at least by the time this document was last updated.

=cut

